# NeurIPS - Ariel Data Challenge 2024

The discovery of exoplanets—planets orbiting stars other than our Sun—has transformed our cosmic perspective, challenging conventional notions about Earth's uniqueness and the potential for life elsewhere. As of today, we are aware of over 5,600 exoplanets. Detecting these worlds is the initial step; we must also comprehend and characterise their nature by studying their atmospheres. In 2029, ESA Ariel Mission will conduct the first comprehensive study of 1,000 extrasolar planets in our galactic neighbourhood.

Observing these atmospheres is one of the hardest data-analysis problems in contemporary astronomy. When an exoplanet transits its host star in our line of sight, a tiny fraction of starlight (50–200 photons per million) passes through the planet's atmospheric annulus and interacts with its chemistry, clouds, and winds. These faint signals typically range from 50ppm (for Super-Earth like planets) to 200ppm (for Jupiter like planets) in magnitude and are regularly corrupted by the noise of the instrument. A major component of this noise is due to the inevitable vibration of the spacecraft in space, known as ‘jitter noise’. This noise arises from the difficulties of maintaining precise pointing in low-gravity environments, as the spacecraft relies on spinning momentum wheels for stability. Akin to taking long-exposure images with a shaky hand, this noise poses a far greater challenge than the motion blur encountered in commercial photography applications. The photometric variation (∼200 ppm) caused by jitter noise alone is comparable to the variation exhibited by the planetary signal we aim to detect, undermining signals from small planets like Earths and super-Earths. Coupled with other sources of correlated and uncorrelated noises, it is proving difficult for us to achieve the strict technical requirement of the Ariel Payload design.

The task of this competition is to extract the atmospheric spectra from each observation, with an estimate of its level of uncertainty. In order to obtain such a spectrum, we require the participant to detrend a large number of sequential 2D images of the spectral focal plane taken over several hours of observing the exoplanet as it eclipses its host star. Performing this detrending process to extract atmospheric spectra and their associated errorbars from raw observational data is a crucial and common prerequisite step for any modern astronomical instrument before the data can undergo scientific analysis.

