# RPG Game
#### Video Demo:  <(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6_x8gezwsMU)>
#### Description:
For my final project for CS50P I made an rpg game. I used tabulate which was learned in a prior lesson to create an organized table for the players stats. I used os and json to store the players save points. I saved all the info in save.json using my function save_game which stores all the stats the player has and the story index the player is at. I used my function load_game to load all of that information. I used uuid as well as a unique identifier so that storing the information wouldn't overwrite the last persons data. I used sys to exit and random to choose random attacks and to pick a number when rolling a dice. I used time to used time.sleep() so I could insert pauses for dramatic effect. I used ANSI escape codes to color my text so that my game looks a bit better. I also used it to print out text one character at a time with a pause between each character. In the function that prints things slowly I had to take in account that most of my text had ANSI escape codes, it took a bit of research but I found out how to account for that. I created a Player and Enemy class. The Player class contains all the default stats the player is assigned. It also stores functions on doing different attacks, healing, leveling up, upgrading your weapon, and taking damage. Whenever an attack is made by the player, it calls on the enemy class to take damage. For enemies I created a separate file called enemies.py that stores all of the enemy information, such as its name, health, attacks, if the attacks are telegraphed, the gold they drop, and the xp they drop. When I want to call on an enemy to fight I created a function called encounter which simulates the battle. All I have to include when calling the function is the player name and the enemy name. I made the combat system interesting and strategic. You can attack, use a strong attack, stun your opponent, and heal. A dice is rolled to determine the success of your move. When the enemy does a telegraphed attack, you can dodge either left or right, if you dodge the right direction you evade the attack. The direction the enemy attacks in is picked at random. When you die, you can enter your name and continue right where you left at. I created a loop in main that calls on the function, stats, story, option, and encounter. Once the cycle is finished the story index increases and it moves to the next part of the story. In the option function, you can choose to go different directions that lead to different rewards or even death. I added in collectables that increase your critical strike chance (doubles your damage) and others that increase your health. There is also a level system which once you reach the required amount of xp, you level up and your health and attack power goes up. To upgrade your weapon you have to use gold. I built this project on practicality. I created all the enemies and functions. If I am to come back to this project all I would need to add would be the script in order to make it work properly. I am unable to actually test this project as all of my functions require different things that make it impossible to test so I just created three new functions that don’t really do anything. I put a lot of effort into this project and I wrote 56,206 characters total. Even though this is one of my first projects I enjoyed making it and I learned a lot. I wasn’t able to describe everything I added as that would take a long time.

