# Weather App
#### Video Demo:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YeRdw1XiIJ8
#### Description:
For my final project for CS50 I made a weather app that determines the weather, temperature, temperature it feels like, lowest temperature of the day, highest temperature of the day, and humidity of any city, country, or continent. I did this by researching for the best weather app to use, I found openweathermap.org to be the best possible option. Once I was on that site I created an account and found out how to get an api key for all the weather data. I then imported that api key into my python script. I looked up different ways to do this online and applied the best method. I imported requests and flask. Instead of creating a layout for my html pages, I just made it into one html file called weather.html. That's all I needed. For the functions I just did what I used in finance. I made the method POST for each of the functions. I was having a problem whenever someone inputted a city with a space in between such as ‘Las Vegas’, it wouldn’t register the space properly in the url. To fix this I asked chat gpt what I could use and it told me to replace spaces with %20. %20 is the character used for encoding spaces in urls. I made lo_encoded the variable that contained the proper formatted city or country url with proper spaces. I then grabbed information from OpenWeatherMap on the weather data for the location inputted by the person. I got that using the ‘get’ function from requests, and stored that data in the variable result.

I was receiving a lot of errors when I was trying to send an alert whenever the request failed. It took a lot of debugging and html page changes. In the end I completely removed my layout template because for some reason it kept on only loading the layout and not my weather.html, and then I also removed my error.html file and merged that into weather.html to display an alert if something went wrong. I researched the best way to handle errors and applied it to my project. result.raise_for_status() this checks if the request for information was successful or not. The next two except functions catch any errors such as network errors and everything else. Instead of creating an apology function, I just put the error message inside weather.html. All it does is display an alert if the error message is returned.

In weather.html I used a simple bootstrap. I wrote what I used in “layout.html” in finance. I made the background blue because that seems like a weather app colour. I am not the greatest at using html so it is very basic. At the top I made the title display “Global Weather Forecast”, then below it in the middle of the screen I made a simple text block where you input the country or city you want to search for. After you click search the weather results are displayed below the search bar. I used jinja to make an if statement for whenever an error message is returned, and then an elif for when it’s successful. I had to ask chatgpt how I could display the information received from the weather website. There are different subcategories and even arrays to discern between different parts of the information received. I was having trouble determining what information to provide and I was even having a huge error as well. Before I was trying to display the time the sun would set. I looked up a function and used it but forgot to import it into my main script. I debugged for a while before figuring that out and once I did figure it out and imported the function to my code, it still wasn’t working. In the end I didn’t want to rely on chat gpt too much so I just removed the sunset part. For degrees Celsius, instead of copy pasting it into my code, I looked up what the combination is for it. It’s: &deg;C.
This was a fun simple project to make and I learned a lot of new things from making it. CS50 has been fun and I managed to complete it in a bit over a month. I hope in the future I will have improved a lot and I can look back on this project and laugh at how badly I coded it. Maybe in the future I can come back to this and create a far better weather website.
